README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Hi 👋, I'm Inam ul Rehman</h1>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/inamulrehman/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white">
  </a>
  <a href="inamul09rehman@gmail.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Email-%23333?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white">
  </a>
  <a href="https://discord.com/users/824253991197212672">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Discord-5865F2?style=for-the-badge&logo=discord&logoColor=white">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCgIbCRYNY5ACXdaOkiNrtDA">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/YouTube-FF0000?style=for-the-badge&logo=youtube&logoColor=white">
  </a>
  <a href="https://leetcode.com/inamulrehman09/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-LeetCode-FFA116?style=for-the-badge&logo=leetcode&logoColor=black">
  </a>
</p>


I am a Software Engineer from Pakistan, developing projects by collaborating with 
international individuals in AI, including Generative AI, AI agents, and RAG. I 
contribute to building backends using Flask or Node.js. I have also worked on various IoT
projects using hardware like ESP32, ESP8266, and Arduino Uno, collecting environmental 
data and sending it to databases or the cloud via APIs.

I do problem-solving in C++ and have participated in different international coding 
competitions ([Advent of Code](https://adventofcode.com/), [Meta Hacker Cup](https://web.facebook.com/codingcompetitions/hacker-cup), [Google Coding Farewell](#), [Harvard's CS50x](https://cs50.harvard.edu/x/2025/puzzles/) ). I love to teach and learn, which led me to teach Python [@Stanford's Code in Place](https://codeinplace.stanford.edu/), conduct IoT workshops, and present LeetCode problems to underprivileged students [@iCodeGuru](https://icode.guru/). <br>
I also competed in international hackathons with a team ([@lablab.ai](https://lablab.ai/event), [@genai.works](https://genai.works/hackathon), [elevenlabs.io](https://hackathon.elevenlabs.io/)), these three of the projects were recognized with awards:

[Teepon](https://github.com/inamprograms/Teepon) – Platform: lablab.ai, Award: Silver/Gold – LinkedIn Post
[Food Complaint Resolution](https://github.com/inamprograms/Food-complaint-resolution-app) Platform: lablab.ai, Award: Silver/Gold – LinkedIn Post
[EquiDonate](https://github.com/inamprograms/EquiDonate) – Platform: lablab.ai, Award: Silver/Gold – LinkedIn Post


- 🌱 I’m currently learning **Building AI Agents using 11labs conversational AI and hugging face library**

- 💬 Ask me about **Leetcode & DSA, IoT, Generative AI, AI agents, and RAG, Backend**

- 📫 How to reach me **inamul09rehman@gmail.com**
  

## Tools and Skills  

| Category                | Technologies & Tools |
|-------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **IDEs & Tools**        | ![VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/-VS%20Code-007ACC?style=flat&logo=visual-studio-code&logoColor=white) ![PlatformIO](https://img.shields.io/badge/-PlatformIO-ff4800?style=flat&logo=platformio&logoColor=white) ![Arduino IDE](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Arduino%20IDE-00979D?style=flat&logo=arduino&logoColor=white) ![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Docker-2496ED?style=flat&logo=docker&logoColor=white) |
| **Languages** | ![C++](https://img.shields.io/badge/-C++-00599C?style=flat&logo=c%2B%2B&logoColor=white) ![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Python-3776AB?style=flat&logo=python&logoColor=white) ![HTML](https://img.shields.io/badge/-HTML5-E34F26?style=flat&logo=html5&logoColor=white) ![CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/-CSS3-1572B6?style=flat&logo=css3&logoColor=white) ![SQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/-SQL-4479A1?style=flat&logo=MySQL&logoColor=white) |
| **Backend & Frameworks** | ![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Flask-000000?style=flat&logo=flask&logoColor=white) ![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Node.js-339933?style=flat&logo=node.js&logoColor=white) |
| **API Development & Testing** | ![REST API](https://img.shields.io/badge/REST%20API-1E90FF?style=flat) ![Postman](https://img.shields.io/badge/Postman-FF6C37?style=flat&logo=postman&logoColor=white) |
| **Databases**           | ![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/-MySQL-4479A1?style=flat&logo=mysql&logoColor=white) ![Oracle](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Oracle-F80000?style=flat&logo=oracle&logoColor=white) ![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/-MongoDB-47A248?style=flat&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white) |
| **AI** | ![Generative AI](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Generative%20AI-5A29E4?style=flat&logo=openai&logoColor=white) ![RAG](https://img.shields.io/badge/-RAG-ffca28?style=flat&logo=ai&logoColor=black) ![AI Agents](https://img.shields.io/badge/-AI%20Agents-764ABC?style=flat&logo=ai&logoColor=white) |
| **IoT & Embedded Systems** | ![ESP32](https://img.shields.io/badge/-ESP32-000000?style=flat&logo=espressif&logoColor=white) ![ESP8266](https://img.shields.io/badge/-ESP8266-000000?style=flat&logo=espressif&logoColor=white) ![Arduino](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Arduino-00979D?style=flat&logo=arduino&logoColor=white) ![MQTT](https://img.shields.io/badge/-MQTT-660066?style=flat&logo=mqtt&logoColor=white) ![HTTP](https://img.shields.io/badge/-HTTP-00599C?style=flat&logo=http&logoColor=white) |
| **Version Control**      | ![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Git-F05032?style=flat&logo=git&logoColor=white) ![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/-GitHub-181717?style=flat&logo=github&logoColor=white) |



### Projects 💼
- **[EcoFactor](#ecofactor)**  
- **[Teepon](#)**  
- **[BlockWhere](#)**  
- **[Food Complaint Resolution](#)**  
- **[Neue View](#)**  
- **[Instagram Computer Vision AI](#)**  
- **[Other Projects](#)**  


### GitHub Stats

<a href="https://github.com/inamprograms" alt="Go to GitHub profile">
    <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=inamprograms&title_color=ffffff&text_color=c9cacc&icon_color=2bbc8a&bg_color=1d1f21"
        alt="Top languages card" />
    <img src="https://github-readme-streak-stats.herokuapp.com/?user=inamprograms" alt="Streak stats card" />
    <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=inamprograms&show_icons=true&title_color=ffffff&text_color=c9cacc&icon_color=2bbc8a&bg_color=1d1f21" 
        alt="Profile stats card" />
</a>


### **EcoFactor**  
Ecofactor was built to bring an idea to life with a team of talented developers, a product manager, and a designer from diverse geographical locations. As a **Software Engineer**, I contributed to the **backend development**, integrating **AI technologies**, collaborating with the team, debugging, and troubleshooting.  

**Objective:**  
An **AI tool** that provides optimized **product materials**, helping industries **reduce costs while maintaining quality**. Additionally, it includes an **ESG guidelines checker** for products and a **custom ChatGPT-like functionality**.  

**Tech Stack:**  
`HTML` `CSS` `JavaScript` `Bootstrap` `Python` `Flask` `Generative AI (GPT 3.5 Turbo, GPT 4o, Vectara)`

🔹 **Features:**  
- Upload a **product description document** and chat with Ecofactor to receive optimized material suggestions.  
- **ESG guidelines checker** provides compliance recommendations based on product specifications.
- **Custom ChatGPT-like functionality** allowing users to ask general queries.

🔹 **My Role & Contributions:**  
- Developed the **backend using Python Flask**, creating a **REST API** and conducting **unit testing**.  
- Integrated **OpenAI's GPT models, Vectara APIs, and Pinecone vector database**, developing a **RAG-based system**.  
- **Deployed the backend** on the cloud, troubleshooting deployment issues.  
- Collaborated with **mentors and team members** through pair programming, ensuring smooth integration with the **frontend team**.  
- Explored additional resources on web scrapers, Vectara ingest (crawlers), and OpenAI's Assistant API.

🔹 **Future Enhancements:**  
- Fine-tuning the **product optimization feature** for better material recommendations.  
- Adding **ESG guidelines checker** functionalities to analyze product ESG guidelines, suggest ESG best practices.  

🔹 **Links:**  
[GitHub Repo](https://github.com/inamprograms/ecofactory) | [Live Demo](https://eco-factory.netlify.app/) | [Follow on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/ecofactorai/) | [LinkedIn Post](#)

📫 **Let's Connect:**  
[GitHub][github-profile] | [LinkedIn][linkedin-profile] | [LeetCode][leetcode-profile] | [Portfolio][portfolio-link]  

---

[github-profile]: https://github.com/your-username  
[linkedin-profile]: https://linkedin.com/in/your-profile  
[leetcode-profile]: https://leetcode.com/your-username  
[portfolio-link]: https://your-portfolio.com

Commit message:

Project Teepon added to readme

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Hi 👋, I'm Inam ul Rehman</h1>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/inamulrehman/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white">
  </a>
  <a href="inamul09rehman@gmail.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Email-%23333?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white">
  </a>
  <a href="https://discord.com/users/824253991197212672">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-Discord-5865F2?style=for-the-badge&logo=discord&logoColor=white">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCgIbCRYNY5ACXdaOkiNrtDA">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/YouTube-FF0000?style=for-the-badge&logo=youtube&logoColor=white">
  </a>
  <a href="https://leetcode.com/inamulrehman09/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-LeetCode-FFA116?style=for-the-badge&logo=leetcode&logoColor=black">
  </a>
</p>


I am a Software Engineer from Pakistan, developing projects by collaborating with 
international individuals in AI, including Generative AI, AI agents, and RAG. I 
contribute to building backends using Flask or Node.js. I have also worked on various IoT
projects using hardware like ESP32, ESP8266, and Arduino Uno, collecting environmental 
data and sending it to databases or the cloud via APIs.

I do problem-solving in C++ and have participated in different international coding 
competitions ([Advent of Code](https://adventofcode.com/), [Meta Hacker Cup](https://web.facebook.com/codingcompetitions/hacker-cup), [Google Coding Farewell](#), [Harvard's CS50x](https://cs50.harvard.edu/x/2025/puzzles/) ). I love to teach and learn, which led me to teach Python [@Stanford's Code in Place](https://codeinplace.stanford.edu/), conduct IoT workshops, and present LeetCode problems to underprivileged students [@iCodeGuru](https://icode.guru/). <br>
I also competed in international hackathons with a team ([@lablab.ai](https://lablab.ai/event), [@genai.works](https://genai.works/hackathon), [elevenlabs.io](https://hackathon.elevenlabs.io/)), these three of the projects were recognized with awards:

[Teepon](https://github.com/inamprograms/Teepon) – Platform: lablab.ai, Award: Silver/Gold – LinkedIn Post
[Food Complaint Resolution](https://github.com/inamprograms/Food-complaint-resolution-app) Platform: lablab.ai, Award: Silver/Gold – LinkedIn Post
[EquiDonate](https://github.com/inamprograms/EquiDonate) – Platform: lablab.ai, Award: Silver/Gold – LinkedIn Post


- 🌱 I’m currently learning **Building AI Agents using 11labs conversational AI and hugging face library**

- 💬 Ask me about **Leetcode & DSA, IoT, Generative AI, AI agents, and RAG, Backend**

- 📫 How to reach me **inamul09rehman@gmail.com**
  

## Tools and Skills  

| Category                | Technologies & Tools |
|-------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **IDEs & Tools**        | ![VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/-VS%20Code-007ACC?style=flat&logo=visual-studio-code&logoColor=white) ![PlatformIO](https://img.shields.io/badge/-PlatformIO-ff4800?style=flat&logo=platformio&logoColor=white) ![Arduino IDE](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Arduino%20IDE-00979D?style=flat&logo=arduino&logoColor=white) ![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Docker-2496ED?style=flat&logo=docker&logoColor=white) |
| **Languages** | ![C++](https://img.shields.io/badge/-C++-00599C?style=flat&logo=c%2B%2B&logoColor=white) ![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Python-3776AB?style=flat&logo=python&logoColor=white) ![HTML](https://img.shields.io/badge/-HTML5-E34F26?style=flat&logo=html5&logoColor=white) ![CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/-CSS3-1572B6?style=flat&logo=css3&logoColor=white) ![SQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/-SQL-4479A1?style=flat&logo=MySQL&logoColor=white) |
| **Backend & Frameworks** | ![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Flask-000000?style=flat&logo=flask&logoColor=white) ![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Node.js-339933?style=flat&logo=node.js&logoColor=white) |
| **API Development & Testing** | ![REST API](https://img.shields.io/badge/REST%20API-1E90FF?style=flat) ![Postman](https://img.shields.io/badge/Postman-FF6C37?style=flat&logo=postman&logoColor=white) |
| **Databases**           | ![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/-MySQL-4479A1?style=flat&logo=mysql&logoColor=white) ![Oracle](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Oracle-F80000?style=flat&logo=oracle&logoColor=white) ![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/-MongoDB-47A248?style=flat&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white) |
| **AI** | ![Generative AI](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Generative%20AI-5A29E4?style=flat&logo=openai&logoColor=white) ![RAG](https://img.shields.io/badge/-RAG-ffca28?style=flat&logo=ai&logoColor=black) ![AI Agents](https://img.shields.io/badge/-AI%20Agents-764ABC?style=flat&logo=ai&logoColor=white) |
| **IoT & Embedded Systems** | ![ESP32](https://img.shields.io/badge/-ESP32-000000?style=flat&logo=espressif&logoColor=white) ![ESP8266](https://img.shields.io/badge/-ESP8266-000000?style=flat&logo=espressif&logoColor=white) ![Arduino](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Arduino-00979D?style=flat&logo=arduino&logoColor=white) ![MQTT](https://img.shields.io/badge/-MQTT-660066?style=flat&logo=mqtt&logoColor=white) ![HTTP](https://img.shields.io/badge/-HTTP-00599C?style=flat&logo=http&logoColor=white) |
| **Version Control**      | ![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Git-F05032?style=flat&logo=git&logoColor=white) ![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/-GitHub-181717?style=flat&logo=github&logoColor=white) |



### Projects 💼
- **[EcoFactor](#ecofactor)**  
- **[Teepon](#teepon---your-ai-powered-outing-planner-shortlisted-as-top-5-project)**  
- **[BlockWhere](#)**  
- **[Food Complaint Resolution](#)**  
- **[Neue View](#)**  
- **[Instagram Computer Vision AI](#)**  
- **[Other Projects](#)**  


### GitHub Stats

<a href="https://github.com/inamprograms" alt="Go to GitHub profile">
    <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=inamprograms&title_color=ffffff&text_color=c9cacc&icon_color=2bbc8a&bg_color=1d1f21"
        alt="Top languages card" />
    <img src="https://github-readme-streak-stats.herokuapp.com/?user=inamprograms" alt="Streak stats card" />
    <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=inamprograms&show_icons=true&title_color=ffffff&text_color=c9cacc&icon_color=2bbc8a&bg_color=1d1f21" 
        alt="Profile stats card" />
</a>


### **EcoFactor**  
Ecofactor was built to bring an idea to life with a team of talented developers, a product manager, and a designer from diverse geographical locations. As a **Software Engineer**, I contributed to the **backend development**, integrating **AI technologies**, collaborating with the team, debugging, and troubleshooting.  

**Objective:**  
An **AI tool** that provides optimized **product materials**, helping industries **reduce costs while maintaining quality**. Additionally, it includes an **ESG guidelines checker** for products and a **custom ChatGPT-like functionality**.  

**Tech Stack:**  
`HTML` `CSS` `JavaScript` `Bootstrap` `Python` `Flask` `Generative AI (GPT 3.5 Turbo, GPT 4o, Vectara)`

🔹 **Features:**  
- Upload a **product description document** and chat with Ecofactor to receive optimized material suggestions.  
- **ESG guidelines checker** provides compliance recommendations based on product specifications.
- **Custom ChatGPT-like functionality** allowing users to ask general queries.

🔹 **My Role & Contributions:**  
- Developed the **backend using Python Flask**, creating a **REST API** and conducting **unit testing**.  
- Integrated **OpenAI's GPT models, Vectara APIs, and Pinecone vector database**, developing a **RAG-based system**.  
- **Deployed the backend** on the cloud, troubleshooting deployment issues.  
- Collaborated with **mentors and team members** through pair programming, ensuring smooth integration with the **frontend team**.  
- Explored additional resources on web scrapers, Vectara ingest (crawlers), and OpenAI's Assistant API.

🔹 **Future Enhancements:**  
- Fine-tuning the **product optimization feature** for better material recommendations.  
- Adding **ESG guidelines checker** functionalities to analyze product ESG guidelines, suggest ESG best practices.  

🔹 **Links:**  
[GitHub Repo](https://github.com/inamprograms/ecofactory) | [Live Demo](https://eco-factory.netlify.app/) | [Follow on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/ecofactorai/) | [LinkedIn Post](#)


### Teepon - Your AI Powered Outing Planner (Shortlisted as Top 5 Project)
In today's life, everyone is busy. You probably made plans to meet with your old college friends, but because of everyone's busy schedules, you may not be able to plan an outing by yourself. 

This tool comes to solve this problem using AI to plan outings by getting the possible free slots from calendars. Along with location based suggestions, it also allows you to regenerate plans if the first suggestion isn’t suitable. Additionally, it considers budget and preferences to ensure the best possible outing plan nearby restaurants or parks to everyone's location.

**Tech Stack:**  
`HTML` `CSS` `JavaScript`  `Python` `Flask` `Agile Models` `MongoDb`

Users can enter the chat room using their email and chat with each other. AI Agile Models will handle the rest, whether it's calling APIs, planning outings based on user information, or retrieving free availability from Google Calendar.

**Try it out!** [Live Demo](https://agil-hackathon-frontend-2akw.vercel.app/) • [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/inamprograms/Teepon/) • [Team Insights & Challenges](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7219377910049103872/) • [Shortlisted in Top 5 & Improvements](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7227140022821429248/)



📫 **Let's Connect:**  
[GitHub][github-profile] | [LinkedIn][linkedin-profile] | [LeetCode][leetcode-profile] | [Portfolio][portfolio-link]  

---

[github-profile]: https://github.com/your-username  
[linkedin-profile]: https://linkedin.com/in/your-profile  
[leetcode-profile]: https://leetcode.com/your-username  
[portfolio-link]: https://your-portfolio.com
